more Aid has started arriving into Gaza
via a temporary floating Pier built by
US forces Israel's mil military
published this footage reportedly
showing the first deliveries arriving at
gaza's Coastline it's hoped more than
100 trucks a day will come ashore
carrying food and other vital supplies
the United Nations welcomed the new
entry point but said the floating peer
couldn't be relied on to solve gaza's
hunger
crisis there is no left to go for ibraim
and his family but their destroyed
house he is one of more than 600,000
Palestinians who have fled Rafa due to
the ongoing Israeli
offensive he is now back to What's Left
of his family's home in
hunis today ibraim has to make food from
an aid
parcel hey what's
good hey
this is the kitchen it's destroyed it's
unfit for use but we are making it work
God willing I can repair this hole so
the children don't fall
out the boxes usually contain canned
meat fava beans and
chickpeas the wfp warns that Aid
packages like these are running out
we've not been able to access our
warehouse in Rafa for more than a week
we have very little food and fuel coming
through the border crossings in the the
South and we are always trying hard but
failing currently to bring in consistent
volumes of food what Aid agencies want
are new shipments and entry points for
Aid delivery to
Gaza fuel food and medical supplies have
dwindled since the Israeli military took
control of the Gaza side of the Rafa
border crossing last week to begin
ground combat
there h trucks on Friday arrived at a
new floating Pier built by the US off
the coast of Gaza as a temporary Aid
Corridor the number of trucks that
arrive there could reach a maximum of
150 per
day Olo cherco is spokesperson for the
United Nations office for the
coordination of humanitarian Affairs she
joins us from Rafa in southern Gaza ol
welcome to you we've just seen this
floating Pier that's been built to bring
Aid into Gaza is that actually going to
help or is it more like a drop in the
bucket uh thank you for having me um as
um the the floating Pier it's a it's a
way to supplement entry of Aid into Gaza
however it does it still remains uh our
need remains to open all the available
Crossings and the best way to deliver
Aid Still Remains by land routes so we
maintain the uh the call to continue um
calling for reopening of these Crossings
because at the moment hardly any uh any
a is entering Gaza and especially with
the uh operations happening in the South
um and as Matthew said earlier as of a
couple of days actually we had no more
food to distribute in the South the
things you've just Sid asking for much
more Aid particularly via land and also
safe access to that aid aid
organizations have been calling for this
from for a long time what will happen if
things don't change and change
soon I mean the the the the uh
consequences of this will be absolutely
catastrophic for the people here uh
because once we run out of stocks and uh
if the aid does not start coming in on a
consistent uh and um scaled up uh manner
then we will we will uh no longer have
any more stocks to to provide we will
not have fuel to deliver these uh this
assistance and um all operations
basically could come to to a halt um
unless we have a consistent and uh
sustained Supply into
Gaza Olga you're in Rafa thousands of
Palestinians Sheltering there have had
to flee since the Israeli incursion into
the city I'm just interested how are you
and your colleagues able to conduct your
work in what are quite clearly very
dangerous
conditions yeah it's very very difficult
and challenging and of course um it's
this is one of the most dangerous uh
places to work in as a humanitarian
worker um and of course protection of
civilians is one of our main concerns so
uh we Face massive massive challenges
you know it's not just about uh getting
the aid inside uh in through the
crossings but it's getting it to the
people who need it within uh the Gaza
Strip and this is what we face really
huge challenges with because uh our
convoys have come under attack uh it's
just it's a very dangerous environment
we spend a lot of time waiting for green
lights uh coordinating these movements a
lot of times they uh we have to abort
missions because um of their
complications and so it's um it's a huge
challenge thank you very much for your
time today Olga that was Olga jevco
spokesperson for the United Nations
office for the coordination of
humanitarian Affairs in Rafa in Gaza
thank you so
much thank you